In this lesson we will learn about special characters in HTL a special character is a punctuation mark
or a symbol or any other character that we cannot simply tie directly into a text editor.
So for example in front of you I have included a list of the top 10 most common h TMLC special characters
that you should be familiar with.
Now let's hop into our text editor and blast through these.
The first special character in our list is right single quote.
So the code for that is ampersands which you can usually get by holding Shift on your keyboard.
And then the number seven.
So it's ampersands and then R S Q You o semi-colon.
We save and refreshing our browser we can see there is the symbol Next up left single quote.
It's exactly like the one we just typed out only with an L instead of an R for left.
So L S Q You o semi-colon.
Right double quote.
And probably yes it's ampersands and then R D for double €2 semi-colon left double quote.
Ampersands l.
D quot semi-colon.
So if I save and refresh in the web browser we can see the various symbols.
Now you may be thinking why do I need special codes for these symbols.
I have a button on my keyboard to the left of my enter or return key and I can simply use that to create
these symbols.
Well the reason you don't want to do that is twofold.
Number one we use these symbols in H.M.S. syntax so it's probably not a good idea to get those mixed
up when you're actually trying to output text and number to those keystrokes aren't angled to the left
or the right the way that the proper punctuation marks are moving on.
Ampersands again because we use the ampersand symbol in HTML codes you don't want to simply type the
ampersand symbol when you want to output the ampersand symbol instead.
The code for that is the ampersand sign and then the letters Ampe and then a semi-colon and that will
output the ampersand symbol.
Next up the greater than symbol because we use this symbol so much in H DML syntax we definitely do
not want to simply try to output it in a text editor.
So instead the symbol for this is ampersands and then G.T. for greater than less than ampersands LTE
for less than copyright ampersands and then simply the word copy and then a semi-colon.
We include a semicolon after all of these.
Next up the registered symbol ampersands Ridge semi-colon trademark symbol ampersands trade semi-colon
.
So if I save and refresh you can see a quick list of all of these very common HTML special characters
You can find a more exhaustive list of the common characters in the course materials but there is no
sense in memorizing these all in one sitting.
You can look them up as you need them.
I'll see you in the next lesson.